Doc for deviated elastic wellbore (#1571)
GEOSX/GEOSX: src/docs/sphinx/advancedExamples/validationStudies/deviatedElasticWellbore/Example.rst

.. _AdvancedExampleDeviatedElasticWellbore:

####################################################
Deviated Elastic Wellbore Problem
####################################################

------------------------------------------------------------------
Problem description
------------------------------------------------------------------

> This example uses the solid mechanics solver to handle a deviated open wellbore problem subjected to a mud pressure. Rock is assumed to be isotropic linear elastic. The undrained condition is also assumed, i.e. no fluid flow in the rock formation. The main goal of this example is to validate the internal wellbore mesh generator for the case of an inclined wellbore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses the solid mechanics solver to handle a deviated wellbore problem with open hole completion. This wellbore is subjected to a mud pressure at wellbore wall and undrained condition is assumed (no fluid flow in the rock formation). A segment of the wellbore with isotropic linear elastic deformation is simulated in this case. Far field stresses and gravity effect are excluded. The main goal of this example is to validate the internal wellbore mesh generator and mechanics solver for the case of an inclined wellbore.
```

Analytical results of the radial and hoop stresses, :math:`\sigma_{rr}` and :math:`\sigma_{\theta\theta}`, around the wellbore are expressed as `(Detournay and Cheng, 1988) <https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/0148906288922991>`__ :

.. math::

>    \sigma_{rr} = p_0\frac{a^2}{r^2}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   \sigma_{rr} = p_0 \frac{a^2}{r^2}
```

.. math::

>    \sigma_{\theta\theta} = -p_0\frac{a^2}{r^2}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   \sigma_{\theta\theta} = -p_0 \frac{a^2}{r^2}
```

> where :math:`p_0` is the applied mud pressure, :math:`a` the wellbore radius and :math:`r` the radial coordinate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where :math:`p_0` is the applied mud pressure at wellbore wall, :math:`a` is the wellbore radius and :math:`r` is the radial coordinate.
```

**Input file**

This benchmark example uses no external input files and everything required is
contained within a single GEOSX input file that is located at:

.. code-block:: console

  src/coreComponents/physicsSolvers/solidMechanics/benchmarks/DeviatedElasticWellbore.xml

In this example, we would focus our attention on the ``Mesh`` tag.

-----------------------------------------------------------
Solid mechanics solver
-----------------------------------------------------------

> As fluid flow is not considered, only the solid mechanics ``SolidMechanicsLagrangianSSLE`` solver is required for solving this linear elastic problem.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As fluid flow is not considered, only the solid mechanics solver ``SolidMechanicsLagrangianSSLE`` is required for solving this wellbore problem.  
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../../src/coreComponents/physicsSolvers/solidMechanics/benchmarks/DeviatedElasticWellbore.xml
  :language: xml
  :start-after: <!-- SPHINX_SolidMechanicsSolver -->
  :end-before: <!-- SPHINX_SolidMechanicsSolverEnd -->

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Deviated wellbore mesh
--------------------------------------------------------------------

> The internal wellbore mesh generator ``InternalWellbore`` is employed to create the mesh of this wellbore problem. The radius of the wellbore and the far-field boundary of the surrounding rock formation are defined by a vector ``radius``. In the tangent direction, ``theta`` angle is specified from 0 to 180 degree for a half of the domain regarding its symmetry. Note that a full geometry with a ``theta`` angle from 0 to 360 degree could be required for more general boundary conditions. The trajectory of the well is defined by ``trajectory``. In this example, the wellbore is inclined in the x-z plane by an angle of 45 degree. The ``autoSpaceRadialElems`` parameter allows optimally increasing the element size from local zone around the wellbore to the far-field zone. Here, it was set to 1 to activate this mesh optimization option. The ``useCartesianOuterBoundary`` transforms the far-field boundary to a squared shape to enforce a Cartesian aligned outer boundary, which eases the loading of the far-field boundary conditions. In this example, this value is set to 0 because there is only one region along the radial direction.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The internal wellbore mesh generator ``InternalWellbore`` is employed to create the mesh of this wellbore problem. The radius of the wellbore and the size of the surrounding rock formation are defined by a vector ``radius``. In the tangent direction, ``theta`` angle is specified from 0 to 180 degree for a half of the domain regarding its symmetry. Note that the whole domain could be specified with a ``theta`` angle from 0 to 360 degree, if modeling complicated scenarios. The trajectory of the well is defined by ``trajectory``. In this example, the wellbore is inclined in the x-z plane by an angle of 45 degree. The ``autoSpaceRadialElems`` parameter allows optimally increasing the element size from local zone around the wellbore to the far-field zone, which is set to 1 to activate this option. The ``useCartesianOuterBoundary`` transforms the far-field boundary to a squared shape to enforce a Cartesian aligned outer boundary, which eases the loading of the far-field boundary conditions. In this example, this value is set to 0 for the single region along the radial direction.  
```

 
.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../../src/coreComponents/physicsSolvers/solidMechanics/benchmarks/DeviatedElasticWellbore.xml
  :language: xml
  :start-after: <!-- SPHINX_WellboreMesh -->
  :end-before: <!-- SPHINX_WellboreMeshEnd -->

.. figure:: mesh.png
   :align: center
   :figclass: align-center

--------------------------------------------------------------------   
Constitutive law
--------------------------------------------------------------------

> Isotropic linear elastic constitutive behavior is considered for the rock around the wellbore. Note that the default density is useless for this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Isotropic linear elastic constitutive behavior is considered for the rock around the wellbore. Note that the default density is useless in this specific example, as gravity effect is neglected.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../../src/coreComponents/physicsSolvers/solidMechanics/benchmarks/DeviatedElasticWellbore.xml
  :language: xml
  :start-after: <!-- SPHINX_Material -->
  :end-before: <!-- SPHINX_MaterialEnd -->

--------------------------------------------------------------------	       
Boundary conditions
--------------------------------------------------------------------

> Far-field boundary are subjected to roller constraints. The mud pressure on the inner face of the wellbore is defined by ``Traction`` field specification. The nodeset generated by the internal wellbore generator for this face is named as ``rneg``. The traction type is ``normal`` to mimic a pressure that is applied normal to the wellbore wall. The negative sign of the scale is attributed to the negative sign convention for compressive stress in GEOSX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Far-field boundaries are subjected to roller constraints and in-situ stresses are not considered. The mud pressure on the wellbore wall is defined by ``Traction`` field specification. The nodeset generated by the internal wellbore generator for this face is named as ``rneg``. The traction type is ``normal`` to mimic a pressure that is applied normal to the wellbore wall. The negative sign of the scale is attributed to the negative sign convention for compressive stresses in GEOSX.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../../src/coreComponents/physicsSolvers/solidMechanics/benchmarks/DeviatedElasticWellbore.xml
  :language: xml
  :start-after: <!-- SPHINX_BoundaryConditions -->
  :end-before: <!-- SPHINX_BoundaryConditionsEnd -->

---------------------------------
Results and benchmark
---------------------------------

> A good agreement between the GEOSX results and analytical results is shown in the figure below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good agreement between the GEOSX results and the corresponding analytical solutions is shown in the figure below:
```

				values = [float(s) for s in line.split()]
				sigVal = values[1]*1e-6 # convert to MPa
				stress_33.append( sigVal )

		#Compute sig_rr, sig_tt
		sig_rr, sig_tt = [], []
		for i in range(len(stress_11)):
			stress = np.array([[stress_11[i],stress_12[i],stress_13[i]],\
							   [stress_12[i],stress_22[i],stress_23[i]],\
							   [stress_13[i],stress_23[i],stress_33[i]]])

			stressLocal = stressRotation(stress,phi_x,phi_z)
			sig_rr.append(stressLocal[0][0])
			sig_tt.append(stressLocal[1][1])

		plt.subplot(221)
		plt.plot(r, sig_rr, 'ko', label='GEOSX result')
		plt.plot(r_anal, sig_rr_anal,  'k', linewidth=2, label='Analytic')
		plt.ylabel('Radial stress (MPa)')
		plt.xlabel('r (m)')
		plt.xlim(a,3*a)

		plt.subplot(222)
		plt.plot(r, sig_tt, 'ko', label='GEOSX result')
		plt.plot(r_anal, sig_tt_anal,  'k', linewidth=2, label='Analytic')
		plt.ylabel('Hoop stress (MPa)')
		plt.xlabel('r (m)')
		plt.xlim(a,3*a)
		plt.legend()
		plt.show()

	if __name__ == "__main__":
		main()

------------------------------------------------------------------
To go further
------------------------------------------------------------------

**Feedback on this example**

> This concludes the deviated wellbore example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This concludes the deviated elastic wellbore example.
```
